Jsonata sources (#1727)
kyma-project/busola: docs/extensibility/resources.md

      ]
    },
    {
      "source": "spec.configPatches",
      "widget": "Table",
      "children": [{ "source": "applyTo" }, { "source": "match.context" }]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Data scoping

Whenever an entry has both **source** and **children** properties, the **children** elements will be provided with extra variables.

In case of objects, a `$parent` variable will contain the data of the parent element.

For example:

```json
[
  {
    "source": "spec",
    "widget": "Panel",
    "children": [{ "source": "$parent.entry1" }, { "source": "$parent.entry2" }]
  }
]
```

will render the data for `spec.entry1` and `spec.entry2`.

In case of array-based components, an `$item` variable will contain data for each child. For example:

```json
[
  {
    "source": "spec.data",
    "widget": "Table",
    "children": [{ "source": "$item.name" }, { "source": "$item.description" }]
  }
]
```

will render `spec.data[].name` and `spec.data[].description`.

## _dataSources_ section

The **dataSources** section contains an object that maps a data source name to a data source configuration object. The data source name preceded by a dollar sign '\$' is used in the **source** expression.

> Data sources are provided in all [JSONata](https://docs.jsonata.org/overview.html) formulas as functions to call.For example, `{ "source": $myRelatedResource().metadata.labels }` returns the `metadata.labels` of the related resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data sources are provided in all [JSONata](https://docs.jsonata.org/overview.html) formulas as functions to call. For example, `{ "source": $myRelatedResource().metadata.labels }` returns the `metadata.labels` of the related resource.
```

## _translations_ section

> This optional section contains all available languages formatted for [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/) either as YAML or JSON, based on their paths. When a name is provided for a widget that value can be used as the key, and the value is the translation for a specific language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This optional section contains all available languages formatted for [i18next](https://www.i18next.com/) either as YAML or JSON, based on their paths. When a name is provided for a widget, that value can be used as the key, and the value is the translation for a specific language.
```

> In addition, if no name is provided, form widgets will automatically try to fetch a translation based on it's **path** attribute, and if that fails, they will use a prettified version of it's last path item as it's name (for example `spec.itemDescription` will be prettified to "Item Description"), and by extension as a potential translation key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, if no name is provided, form widgets automatically try to fetch a translation based on their **path** attribute, and if that fails, they use a prettified version of the last path item as their name (for example `spec.itemDescription` is prettified to "Item Description"), and by extension as a potential translation key.
```
